All right, so maybe now we're going to
start exploring some coding examples
of what we discussed in the previous video.
So, I'm gonna start by creating a new class.
You know, we devised this project to compare examples.
(typing)
all right, so we got a class global information.
Can see that's got some global fields, which keep track
of how many instances of a particular class
or instance you added.
We've got an abstract class there, CounterClass,
with one abstract method called countMyInstances.
Any class that extends this abstract class
must implement this method.
We've got another abstract class there, Animal,
which represents some of the entities at the basest level,
including defining name and top attributes
and calling the abstract method countMyInstances
from its constructor.
Thus, per the comment there, it says that we want
every other class to execute the countMyInstances method.
Without interfaces, this means extending every entity
from the abstract class that enforces subclasses
to implement the method.
With the Animal class, we're also abstracting it here,
so it doesn't have to implement the method.
And right down the bottom there, we create our
CompareExamples class with the main method,
which we'll add some code to shortly.
So you can see here that we've put CounterClass
in our entity hierarchy.
So that we can support the common functionality
of countMyInstances via class inheritance.
All right, so let's add some more code to this example.
And we're gonna paste it just above
our CompareExamples class.
(typing)
Go back up to what I've just pasted in.
So, we're adding to concrete classes there.
The first one is Dog, which extends Animal.
And Cat actually does the same thing.
And you can see in the case of Dog there,
we've got a public constructor.
And adding the countMyInstances method there as well.
And basically doing essentially
the same thing there for Cat.
And again, we're having to do that, we have to implement
the countMyInstances method because we're extending Animal.
All right, so moving down, we've also got
this class here they call Tree.
Now this class has got nothing to do, or nothing in common,
with Animal except we want it to also implement
the countMyInstances method.
And you can see that there we've got a public constructor
and it's also implementing the countMyInstances method.
All right, so let's put all of this together now
by putting some code in our main method
to start using some of this code.
Okay, so there's the code.
You see we're creating three instances at the top there.
And we've got our three loops there, which are going through
and creating instances for Dog, Cat and Tree.
And then we're putting down on the bottom of the screen
there the number of instances that were actually created.
All right, so let's run this.
And you can see there that we've got
the number of Cat instances is seven.
Dog instances five, Tree instances three,
which is consistent the numbers we've defined in the loops.
So, the code works.
All is well, except what happens if you want behaviour
that only applies to the Dog and the Tree, for example.
And not the Cat.
So, obviously, in the case here,
Dog and Cat are both extending Animal.
And the Tree is extending CounterClass.
So, in this scenario, I need to define
the behaviour in the common base class.
Well, you just add the behaviour to those classes only.
And again here, we're talking about if we want the behaviour
that only applies to the Dog and the Tree,
for example, and not the Cat.
Adding additional behaviour to a base class will impact
every object in your application, presumably.
Now, are you really comfortable having a base class
that has no meaning and describes behaviour only?
So, let's write this code with an interface instead.
And we're going to do this in another class.
I'm going to put that class in a separate package,
just to avoid any confusion.
So, new Java class, we'll call this one Interface.
Interface is being the name of the package.
Dot. Compare examples 2.
All right, so there's the code this time using interfaces.
So, here what we've done, firstly, we've eliminated
the abstract class, CounterClass.
So, we've got the same global information class
we had previously.
We've now added an interface, Countable,
which describes the countMyInstances method.
And looking at the Animal class, which is still abstract,
we changed it from extending CounterClass
and replaced it with implements Countable.
Still got the same Dog and Cat classes, you can see there.
And going down to our Tree class,
that now implements Countable, as well.
So, we basically removed the extends CounterClass
and replaced it with implements Countable.
So, that's actually it.
We've got exactly the same code in the main method.
So, if we run that, we got exactly the same results
as the previous code.
So, what's the big deal here?
It's basically the exact same amount of code
and functionality, right?
Well, the difference is twofold.
First, we don't have some abstract class
that has no relationship to our model as a base class.
We're able to maintain the integrity of our business model.
Second, if you need behaviour that only
the Dog and Tree require, we can create another interface
with just that behaviour described and have only those
classes implement that method, having zero impact
on other areas of our application.
Implementing an interface here, instead of perhaps just
delegating the counting method to another class,
also allows you to describe your objects as Countable
and use any functionality available to Countable types.
All right, so that concludes now the comparison
of interface inheritance compared to class inheritance,
that we've talked about in this video and the previous one.
Coming up next is a couple of quiz questions and then,
after that, we're gonna start talking about declaring
and using a list and a rail list instances.
See you in the next video.